[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti and charlie state
our headlines today reassuring the
public that the oxford astrazeneca
vaccine
is safe government ministers urge people
to come forward to get their jabs
after a potential link to extremely rare
blood clots
the jabs are safe they're effective
and they're working to help us get out
of this pandemic
it comes to scientists say a new study
shows the vaccination rollout in
england is breaking the link between
coronavirus infections
and deaths abbas is hijacked and set on
fire in another night of trouble in
northern ireland
prime minister boris johnson says he's
deeply concerned by the violence
i'm with nine-week-old berkshire piglets
let's find out why they're in decline
and how
to keep them going good morning today is
cloudy
blustery but mild there's also rain in
the forecast the heaviest of which
is across the northwest here too we've
got the strongest winds
this mild weather is not going to last
though and i'll have all the details
in about 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning to you it's thursday the
8th of april ministers are urging people
to have full confidence in the covert
vaccination program
it follows a change in guidelines about
the astrazeneca jab
from the official regulator the mhra so
let's remind ourselves
of just what those changes are from now
on
people aged between 18 and 29 will be
offered
an alternative to the oxford astrazeneca
jab
but those who've already had a first
dose of the astrazeneca vaccine should
go ahead
and take the second now pregnant people
and people with certain blood disorders
should consult their
doctor for advice a little early on
breakfast the deputy chairman of the
joint committee on vaccination and
immunization that's professor anthony
harden
told us the time scale of the
vaccination rollout will not be affected
we're not immunizing the majority of
under 30 year olds at the moment and we
will not get to them for a number of
weeks
so the vaccination program is going full
steam ahead
everybody should remain confident in it
what we're seeing
is a very very rare extremely rare
safety signal which is coming out of the
um
the regulators
now we can get more now from our chief
political correspondent adam fleming um
add a morning to you so making it really
clear
that the vaccination program isn't going
to change
but what so many people are concerned
about as well is the roadmap out of
lockdown the government's laid out and
how perhaps if the vaccine rollout
changes or is even slightly tweaked how
that will affect
the overall easing well you're right
that one of the factors that affects the
speed of the road map is how the
vaccination program is going but this
change is not a big enough change
to affect that so as far as the
government is concerned the road map is
still on track
the next phase of the unlocking of the
lockdown in england is due next monday
then there's another phase in the middle
of may and another one
towards the end of june the other thing
the government is adamant that is not
affected by
any of this is their targets for the
vaccine program
overall so remember that first target is
for the top nine priority groups the
over 50s the clinically vulnerable
people who work in the health services
for they to be offered a first jab
by the end of next week and then for
every other adult in england to be
offered their first dose by the end of
july
matt hancock the health secretary says
that does not
change even though now we know there are
eight and a half
million unvaccinated under 30s
who may now have a different choice of
what vaccine to take here's how the
health secretary explained it the maths
is
that there are um 10.1 million people
aged between 18 and 29 in this country
in the uk
and 1.6 million of them have already
been vaccinated
because either their care workers or
they might be
clinically extremely vulnerable that
leaves
around eight and a half million people
and we have more than enough
pfizer and moderna vaccine so that if
all of them get that
that jab then we'll be able to
ensure everybody can get it and it
doesn't it doesn't impact on the speed
of the rollout
just what you want at this time of the
morning a big old maths lesson from the
health secretary but the point he's
making there is a pretty simple one it's
like there are enough doses
uh that no matter what people in that
age group choose to do as a result of
this change the advice
things should be fine what's interesting
about that is that is an
on the record pledge from a government
minister so if there are
issues that emerge in a few weeks or a
few months time well then that provides
a little bit of a problem for the
government doesn't it
just a little bit um adam thanks very
much adam fleming
our chief political correspondent
scientists tracking coronavirus in
england say the vaccination program is
beginning to break the link between
covert 19 cases
and deaths so the latest react study by
imperial college london which involved
analyzing more than 140
000 people's swab tests between the 11th
and 30th of march
found that infections had fallen by
roughly two-thirds
since february
let's have a look at some of the
problems facing in northern ireland at
the moment a bus we know has been
hijacked and set on fire
another night of trouble in northern
ireland prime minister boris johnson
saying he's deeply concerned
by some of the violent scenes there
let's speak to our island correspondent
chris page
who's in belfast for us chris just talk
us through
what has been happening most recently
also some of the reaction
yes charlie well what is causing
particular concern
about the violence last night is that it
happens at a peace line
so-called a wall that separates
communities on either side of the
political divide
if you like in west belfast between the
lordless shankle road
and the mainly republican springfield
road area
now i had a bus was hijacked as you say
and set on fire the violence started on
the loyalist
side but then there was sustained uh
trouble with
petrol bombs and other missiles being
thrown to and fro across that peace line
so ministers in the devolved government
will be meeting today to
get a briefing uh from police on the
trouble of recent days prior to last
night the violence was
uh focused on loyalist areas and there
have been
a number of factors at play loyalists
have
uh for some months been feeling very
uneasy police have said about some of
the
aspects of the brexit arrangements for
northern ireland in particular they see
it as
creating a new trade border between
north round and the rest of the uk
something which they feel
undermines their sense of british
identity that they feel very strongly
also last week renewed anger that
prosecutors didn't take action against
senior sinn fein politicians for alleged
breaches of cronovirus restrictions
at the funeral of a former leading ira
man last summer
so uh there is quite a complex picture
as regards the motivations if you like
of the rioters whenever politicians in
the storm of assembly come together
today recall from the reached or break
to debate a motion condemning the
violence we can expect them to have
differing opinions as to exactly what is
the root cause of this routing but we
can also expect them to be united
in calls for the disruption and
destruction to stop
chris thank you very much a body
found in a pond in essex has been
confirmed
as london student richard acoragaye
the 19 year old who had sickle cell
disease hadn't been seen by his family
since he left their home
in ladbroke grove in london on the 22nd
of march
police said his death was being treated
as unexplained
and that they believe that no one else
was involved
foreign secretary dominic raab has
accused myanmar's military
regime a bullying after the country's uk
ambassador was locked out of his
embassy in london chaweswa min
says he slept in his car last night
after he was stopped from entering the
building in mayfair and told he was no
longer myanmar's representative
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news